[ADD] inventory: add manual res doc (#7886)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/shipping_receiving/reservation_methods/manually.rst

==================
Manual reservation
==================

Unlike the *At Confirmation* reservation method, the *Manually* reservation method does **not**
reserve products automatically.

Instead, once a sales order (SO) is confirmed, product availability **must** be checked manually,
and the required quantity **must** be reserved manually.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`About reservation methods <../reservation_methods>`

Configuration
=============

To set the reservation method to *Manually*, navigate to :menuselection:`Inventory app -->

> Configuration --> Operations Types`.

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

In the :guilabel:`General` tab, locate the :guilabel:`Reservation Method` field, and select
:guilabel:`Manually`.

.. image:: manually/manually-operations-type.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Reservation method field on delivery order operation type form.

Workflow
========

To see the *Manually* reservation method in action, create a new :abbr:`SO (sales order)` by
navigating to :menuselection:`Sales app --> New`.

Add a customer in the :guilabel:`Customer` field, then, in the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab, click
:guilabel:`Add a product`, and select a product to add to the quotation from the drop-down menu.
Finally, in the :guilabel:`Quantity` column, adjust the desired quantity of the product to sell.

Once ready, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to confirm the sales order.

> Click the green :guilabel:`forecast graph` icon on the product line to reveal the product's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the green :guilabel:` 📈 (forecast graph)` icon on the product line to reveal the product's
```

Author: Implemented suggestion ✅

:guilabel:`Availability` tooltip. This tooltip reveals the reserved number of units for this order.
Because the reservation method is set to *Manually*, the :guilabel:`Reserved` quantity reads `0
Units`.

However, below that quantity reads `Available in stock`. This is because the quantity is available,

> but must be manually reserved.

Author: Same with the other related PR - going to look into this one and will update accordingly

> but must be manually reserved.

Author: Did some tests and found that the tooltip presents different info based on different factors. So I added this note in after this sentence:

.. note::
   If there is **not** sufficient quantity of stock for the product included in the |SO|, the
   :guilabel:`📈 (forecast graph)` icon is red, instead of green.

   Instead of revealing the reserved number of units for the order, the :guilabel:`Availability`
   tooltip reads :guilabel:`Reserved`, and reveals the available number of units (e.g., `0 Units`).

   Additionally, unless there is a set replenishment or a live receipt, it also reads :guilabel:`No
   future availability`, in red text.

Suggestion implemented ✅

.. image:: manually/manually-availability-tooltip.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Confirmed sales order with product availability tooltip selected.

Once the :abbr:`SO (sales order)` is confirmed, navigate to the :menuselection:`Inventory app`, and
locate the :guilabel:`Delivery Orders` card on the :guilabel:`Inventory Overview` page.

The :guilabel:`Delivery Orders` card displays the current status of live orders, including those

> with a *Waiting* status. Orders with this status indicate that the products in those orders have

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

either not been reserved yet, or are not in stock at all.

.. image:: manually/manually-delivery-orders-card.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Delivery orders task card with waiting status orders.

> To see the :abbr:`SO (sales order)` created previously, click the :guilabel:`X Waiting` button on

Author: Yeah, that actually appears to be easier to understand. Suggestion implemented ✅

the card (in this case, `8 Waiting`).

> Locate the delivery order (DO) tied to the :abbr:`SO (sales order)` that was previously created, and

Author: I like to write it out upon first mention in a doc, and then use an abbreviation tag afterward, but if that's not how I should be doing it let me know and I will change it throughout

click the line to view it.

On the :guilabel:`Delivery Order` form, the status in the :guilabel:`Product Availability` field is

> listed as `Available`, in yellow text instead of green. This is because there is sufficient stock on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
listed as `Available`, in yellow text, instead of green. This is because there is sufficient stock on
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

hand for this order, but no quantity has been reserved yet.

> In the :guilabel:`Operations` tab on the :guilabel:`Product` line, the numbers in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the :guilabel:`Operations` tab, on the :guilabel:`Product` line, the numbers in the
```
added comma for enhanced sentence clarity

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

> :guilabel:`Demand` column and the :guilabel:`Quantity` column do no match (in this case, the
> :guilabel:`Demand` column lists `10.00`, while the :guilabel:`Quantity` column lists `0`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Demand` column and the :guilabel:`Quantity` column do *not* match. 

In this case, the :guilabel:`Demand` column lists `10.00`, while the :guilabel:`Quantity` column
lists `0`.
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

.. image:: manually/manually-delivery-order-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Delivery order form with product availability and reserved quantity.

To manually reserve the specified quantity of the product for this order, click the
:guilabel:`Check Availability` button at the top of the form. Doing so turns the `Available` status
in the :guilabel:`Product Availability` field green, and changes the number in the

> :guilabel:`Quantity` column to `10.00`, so it matches the :guilabel:`Demand` column.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Quantity` column to match the :guilabel:`Demand` column.
```

Reviewer 2: ...because there IS enough quantity of this product on-hand to reserve it for this order...

is that correct? If so, it might be beneficial to add (or something like that) to round out the methodology behind the process.

Author: Yeah, that's correct. Added in a sentence to explain the reason after this paragraph.

Suggestion implemented ✅

Once ready, click :guilabel:`Validate`.

.. tip::

>    Multiple orders with a *Waiting* status can be manually reserved at once and set to *Ready*
>    status.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Multiple orders with a *Waiting* status can be manually reserved at the same time, and set to
   *Ready* status.
```

Reviewer 2: just a different, slightly cleaner way to present the sentence

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

>    To do that, from the :guilabel:`Inventory Overview` page, click the :guilabel:`X Waiting` button
>    on the :guilabel:`Delivery Orders` card.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   To do that, open the :menuselection:`Inventory` app, which reveals the :guilabel:`Inventory
   Overview` page. The :guilabel:`Inventory Overview` page is also accessible by navigating to
   :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Overview`. 
   
   From the :guilabel:`Inventory Overview` page, click the :guilabel:`(#) Waiting` button on the
   :guilabel:`Delivery Orders` card.
```
just some added context

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

>    Then, click the :guilabel:`checkboxes` to the left of each desired order, or click the
>    :guilabel:`checkbox` in the header row to select all orders on the page. Then, click the
>    :guilabel:`Check Availability` button at the top of the page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Then, tick the checkboxes to the left of each desired order, or tick the checkbox in the header
   row, to the far-left, to select all orders on the page at once.
   
   Then, click the :guilabel:`Check Availability` button at the top of the page.
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

>    If the product(s) included in every order have enough stock on hand, this reserves the products
>    and moves the order into :guilabel:`Ready` status, and disappears the order from the
>    :guilabel:`Waiting` list. If there is not enough stock on hand, the order will retain its current
>    status, and remain on the list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   If the products included in every selected order have enough stock on-hand, this reserves the
   products, and moves the order into :guilabel:`Ready` status. Upon receiving a :guilabel:`Ready`
   status, the order disappears from the :guilabel:`Waiting` list. 
   
   If there is *not* enough stock on-hand, the order retains its current status, and remains on the
   list.
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

==================
Manual reservation
==================

.. _inventory/reservation_methods/manually:

.. |SO| replace:: :abbr:`SO (Sales Order)`

Unlike the *At Confirmation* reservation method, the *Manually* reservation method does **not**
reserve products automatically.

Instead, once a sales order (SO) is confirmed, product availability **must** be checked manually,
and the required quantity **must** be reserved manually.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`About reservation methods <../reservation_methods>`

Configuration
=============

To set the reservation method to *Manually*, navigate to :menuselection:`Inventory app -->
Configuration --> Operations Types`. Then, select the desired :guilabel:`Operation Type` to be
configured, or create a new one by clicking :guilabel:`New`.

In the :guilabel:`General` tab, locate the :guilabel:`Reservation Method` field, and select
:guilabel:`Manually`.

.. image:: manually/manually-operations-type.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Reservation method field on delivery order operation type form.

.. note::

>    When the :guilabel:`Type of Operation` is changed to *Receipt* on an :guilabel:`Operations Type`
>    form, reservation methods are **not** available.

Reviewer 3: If "Receipt" is a drop-down menu option please use a :guilabel:, if it is user input please use literal (\`Receipt\`) formatting :)
```suggestion
   When the :guilabel:`Type of Operation` is changed to :guilabel:`Receipt` on an
   :guilabel:`Operations Type` form, reservation methods are **not** available.
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

   *Ready* status.

   To do that, open the :menuselection:`Inventory` app, which reveals the :guilabel:`Inventory
   Overview` page. The :guilabel:`Inventory Overview` page is also accessible by navigating to
   :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Overview`.

   From the :guilabel:`Inventory Overview` page, click the :guilabel:`(#) Waiting` button on the
   :guilabel:`Delivery Orders` card.

   Then, tick the checkboxes to the left of each desired order, or tick the checkbox in the header
   row, to the far-left, to select all orders on the page at once.

   Then, click the :guilabel:`Check Availability` button at the top of the page.

   If the products included in every selected order have enough stock on-hand, this reserves the
   products, and moves the order into :guilabel:`Ready` status. Upon receiving a :guilabel:`Ready`
   status, the order disappears from the :guilabel:`Waiting` list.

   If there is *not* enough stock on-hand, the order retains its current status, and remains on the
   list.

   .. image:: manually/manually-check-availability.png
      :align: center
      :alt: List of orders in waiting status and check availability button.

.. seealso::

>    - :doc:`At confirmation reservation <../reservation_methods/at_confirmation>`

Reviewer 3: No need for a single bullet
```suggestion
   :doc:`At confirmation reservation <../reservation_methods/at_confirmation>`
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅
